In this section we're going to be learning about the essentials of javascript.
We're going to take a look at the most basic unit of javascript and we're going to look at the different
data types that are available to us to build upon and build our code out of.
So those are strings numbers and booleans.
So those are going to be covered within this section and those are the most basic data types and data
types within javascript javascript allows you to switch data types.
So it's not that when you define a data type a variable with the data type that it has to stay that
way you can redefine it and you can have dynamic different data types for those variables.
So you can update that directly in the code and you're going to find that that javascript is very versatile.
It's very easy to use.
So when you try to write code javascript tries to render it out as best as possible and understand anticipate
what you're trying to do with that code.
And this is where javascript variables also become really important because this is one of the most
fundamental units of programming being able to store a value in a variable and then call that variable.
At any point within the script we're able to update reuse those values as needed within our Javascript
code.
In this section you're going to get familiar with the different data types and how they work and how
you can use them within your code.
There's also the prompt we're going to show you how you can get input and connect a javascript to what's
happening with your web users and allow them to actually input a dynamic value that you can use as a
variable directly within your code.
So this is a first step in creating that interaction between your code and your web users.
We're also going to look at different operators so we're looking at the sign meant.
Operator arithmetic operators comparison operators and logical operators operators and Javascript allow
us to ask a question and get a boolean value in return.
So we know that it can either be true or false with a comparison operator with logic operators.
We can add multiple conditions together and tell if they're true or false.
And then do something with the boolean value.
We're also able to assign values so we can incremented.
We can't add values together.
We can divide them we could subtract them we can multiply them and all of these are arithmetic operators.
Well so there is plus minus multiplication.
Divide and modulus.
So all of this and a whole lot more is going to be covered within this section and it's going to get
you started with the most basic units and to start your foundation for coding javascript.